README.md, before:

# JDBG - Scriptable Java Debugger

[![Integration Tests](https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg/actions/workflows/integration-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg/actions/workflows/integration-tests.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/PavingLayer/jdbg/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/PavingLayer/jdbg)

A **non-interactive, scriptable Java debugger CLI** designed for automation, CI/CD pipelines, and IDE integrations.

Unlike `jdb` which requires a REPL-based interaction, JDBG exposes each debugger operation as a standalone CLI command.

## Features

- **One command = one action** - No interactive sessions required
- **Machine-readable output** - JSON output for scripting and automation
- **Persistent sessions** - Server maintains JDI connections across CLI invocations
- **Shell completions** - Tab completion for commands, options, and dynamic values
- **Fast CLI** - Rust-based CLI with instant startup (~3MB)
- **Server lifecycle management** - Start/stop server directly from CLI

## Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph CLI["Rust CLI"]
        C1[Fast startup]
        C2[Tab complete]
        C3[JSON/Text output]
    end

    subgraph Server["Java Server"]
        S1[Persistent JDI connections]
        S2[Event streaming]
        S3[Session management]
    end

    subgraph Target["Target JVM"]
        T1[Debug port :8000]
    end

    CLI -->|gRPC\ntcp://127.0.0.1:5005| Server
    Server -->|JDI| Target
```

## Project Structure

```
jdbg/
├── cli/              # Rust CLI client
├── server/           # Java gRPC server
├── proto/            # Shared protobuf definitions
├── doc/              # Documentation (mdBook)
├── scripts/          # Build and install scripts
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Java 17+ (for the server)
- Rust toolchain (for building CLI from source)
- A target JVM with debugging enabled:
  ```bash
  java -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=*:8000 -jar app.jar
  ```

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg.git
cd jdbg

# Build and install (to ~/.local)
./scripts/install.sh

# Or build only
./scripts/build-all.sh
```

### Usage

```bash
# Start the JDBG server
jdbg server start

# Attach to a remote JVM (with optional name for easy reference)
jdbg session attach --host prod-server --port 8000 --name prod

# Check status - shows JVM state, suspended threads, breakpoints
jdbg status

# List threads
jdbg thread list

# Add a breakpoint
jdbg bp add --class com.example.MyClass --line 42

# Resume and wait for breakpoint
jdbg exec continue
jdbg events wait -t breakpoint --timeout 30000

# Inspect when stopped
jdbg status       # See which breakpoint was hit
jdbg frame list
jdbg var list

# Get JSON output for scripting
jdbg -f json status | jq '.suspended_threads[] | select(.at_breakpoint)'

# Stop the server when done
jdbg server stop
```

## Commands

| Category | Commands |
|----------|----------|
| **Status** | `status` - Show JVM state, suspended threads, and breakpoints |
| **Server** | `server start`, `server stop`, `server status` |
| **Session** | `session attach`, `session attach-pid`, `session detach`, `session list`, `session info`, `session select`, `session rename` |
| **Breakpoints** | `bp add`, `bp remove`, `bp list`, `bp enable`, `bp disable`, `bp clear` |
| **Execution** | `exec continue`, `exec suspend`, `exec resume`, `exec step` |
| **Threads** | `thread list`, `thread select`, `thread suspend`, `thread resume` |
| **Frames** | `frame list`, `frame select`, `frame info` |
| **Variables** | `var list`, `var get`, `var set` |
| **Evaluation** | `eval <expression>` |
| **Exceptions** | `exception catch`, `exception ignore`, `exception list` |
| **Events** | `events poll`, `events wait`, `events clear`, `events info`, `events subscribe` |

Use `jdbg --help` or `jdbg <command> --help` for detailed usage.

## Shell Completions

```bash
# Bash
jdbg completions bash > ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/jdbg

# Zsh
jdbg completions zsh > ~/.zfunc/_jdbg

# Fish
jdbg completions fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/jdbg.fish
```

## Building from Source

### Build everything

```bash
./scripts/build-all.sh
```

### Build components individually

```bash
# CLI (Rust)
cd cli && cargo build --release

# Server (Java)
cd server && ./mvnw package -DskipTests
```

### Build documentation

```bash
./scripts/build-docs.sh
# Or to serve locally:
cd doc && mdbook serve --open
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `JDBG_SERVER` | Server address | `tcp://127.0.0.1:5005` |
| `JDBG_SERVER_JAR` | Path to server JAR | Auto-detected |
| `JAVA_HOME` | Java installation | Auto-detected |

## Files

| File | Location | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| Server JAR | `~/.local/share/jdbg/jdbg-server.jar` | Server component |
| Server log | `~/.local/share/jdbg/server.log` | Server output |
| PID file | `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/jdbg-server.pid` | Server process ID |

## Non-Goals

JDBG is **not**:

- A replacement for IDE debuggers (IntelliJ, Eclipse, VSCode)
- An interactive REPL debugger (use `jdb` for that)
- A remote debugging protocol implementation

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: improve documentation structure and add how-to guides
- Improve architecture diagram layout (vertical with horizontal subgraphs)
- Update 'Non-Goals' section to 'What JDBG Is Not' with accurate descriptions
- Revamp gRPC API reference with linked message structures and walkthroughs
- Left-align tables for consistent layout
- Add How-to Guides section with practical tutorials:
  - Debug a Running Application
  - Find the Cause of a Bug
  - Debug Multi-threaded Code
  - Automate Debugging Tasks
- Add Contributing guide with:
  - Project structure overview
  - Documentation structure explanation
  - Change checklists for different types of changes
  - Testing and code style guidelines

README.md, after:

# JDBG - Scriptable Java Debugger

[![Integration Tests](https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg/actions/workflows/integration-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg/actions/workflows/integration-tests.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/PavingLayer/jdbg/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/PavingLayer/jdbg)

A **non-interactive, scriptable Java debugger CLI** designed for automation, CI/CD pipelines, and IDE integrations.

Unlike `jdb` which requires a REPL-based interaction, JDBG exposes each debugger operation as a standalone CLI command.

## Features

- **One command = one action** - No interactive sessions required
- **Machine-readable output** - JSON output for scripting and automation
- **Persistent sessions** - Server maintains JDI connections across CLI invocations
- **Shell completions** - Tab completion for commands, options, and dynamic values
- **Fast CLI** - Rust-based CLI with instant startup (~3MB)
- **Server lifecycle management** - Start/stop server directly from CLI

## Architecture

<div align="center">

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph CLI["CLI"]
        direction TB
        C1["⚡ Fast startup"]
        C2["🔤 Tab completion"]
        C3["📄 JSON / Text"]
        C1 ~~~ C2 ~~~ C3
    end

    subgraph Server["Server"]
        direction TB
        S1["🔗 Persistent connections"]
        S2["📡 Event streaming"]
        S3["🗂️ Session management"]
        S1 ~~~ S2 ~~~ S3
    end

    subgraph Target["Target JVM"]
        T1["🎯 Debug port"]
    end

    CLI -->|"gRPC"| Server
    Server -->|"JDI"| Target
```

</div>

## Project Structure

```
jdbg/
├── cli/              # Rust CLI client
├── server/           # Java gRPC server
├── proto/            # Shared protobuf definitions
├── doc/              # Documentation (mdBook)
├── scripts/          # Build and install scripts
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Java 17+ (for the server)
- Rust toolchain (for building CLI from source)
- A target JVM with debugging enabled:
  ```bash
  java -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=*:8000 -jar app.jar
  ```

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/PavingLayer/jdbg.git
cd jdbg

# Build and install (to ~/.local)
./scripts/install.sh

# Or build only
./scripts/build-all.sh
```

### Usage

```bash
# Start the JDBG server
jdbg server start

# Attach to a remote JVM (with optional name for easy reference)
jdbg session attach --host prod-server --port 8000 --name prod

# Check status - shows JVM state, suspended threads, breakpoints
jdbg status

# List threads
jdbg thread list

# Add a breakpoint
jdbg bp add --class com.example.MyClass --line 42

# Resume and wait for breakpoint
jdbg exec continue
jdbg events wait -t breakpoint --timeout 30000

# Inspect when stopped
jdbg status       # See which breakpoint was hit
jdbg frame list
jdbg var list

# Get JSON output for scripting
jdbg -f json status | jq '.suspended_threads[] | select(.at_breakpoint)'

# Stop the server when done
jdbg server stop
```

## Commands

| Category | Commands |
|----------|----------|
| **Status** | `status` - Show JVM state, suspended threads, and breakpoints |
| **Server** | `server start`, `server stop`, `server status` |
| **Session** | `session attach`, `session attach-pid`, `session detach`, `session list`, `session info`, `session select`, `session rename` |
| **Breakpoints** | `bp add`, `bp remove`, `bp list`, `bp enable`, `bp disable`, `bp clear` |
| **Execution** | `exec continue`, `exec suspend`, `exec resume`, `exec step` |
| **Threads** | `thread list`, `thread select`, `thread suspend`, `thread resume` |
| **Frames** | `frame list`, `frame select`, `frame info` |
| **Variables** | `var list`, `var get`, `var set` |
| **Evaluation** | `eval <expression>` |
| **Exceptions** | `exception catch`, `exception ignore`, `exception list` |
| **Events** | `events poll`, `events wait`, `events clear`, `events info`, `events subscribe` |

Use `jdbg --help` or `jdbg <command> --help` for detailed usage.

## Shell Completions

```bash
# Bash
jdbg completions bash > ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/jdbg

# Zsh
jdbg completions zsh > ~/.zfunc/_jdbg

# Fish
jdbg completions fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/jdbg.fish
```

## Building from Source

### Build everything

```bash
./scripts/build-all.sh
```

### Build components individually

```bash
# CLI (Rust)
cd cli && cargo build --release

# Server (Java)
cd server && ./mvnw package -DskipTests
```

### Build documentation

```bash
./scripts/build-docs.sh
# Or to serve locally:
cd doc && mdbook serve --open
```

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `JDBG_SERVER` | Server address | `tcp://127.0.0.1:5005` |
| `JDBG_SERVER_JAR` | Path to server JAR | Auto-detected |
| `JAVA_HOME` | Java installation | Auto-detected |

## Files

| File | Location | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| Server JAR | `~/.local/share/jdbg/jdbg-server.jar` | Server component |
| Server log | `~/.local/share/jdbg/server.log` | Server output |
| PID file | `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/jdbg-server.pid` | Server process ID |

## What JDBG Is Not

- **A GUI debugger** - JDBG is designed for terminal-based workflows, scripting, and automation. If you need visual debugging with breakpoint markers in source code, use an IDE.
- **An interactive REPL** - Each command is standalone. For step-by-step interactive debugging, use `jdb`.

## License

MIT
